Link to the article: https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/astin-bulletin-journal-of-the-iaa/article/telematics-combined-actuarial-neural-networks-for-crosssectional-and-longitudinal-claim-count-data/B6C01BF508F64D4C7A804A628F3D03E0

# Abstract

We present novel cross-sectional and longitudinal claim count models for vehicle insurance built upon the combinedd actuarial neural network (CANN) framework proposed by Wüthrich and Merz. The CANN approach combines a classical actuarial model, such as a generalized linear model, with a neural network. This blending of models results in a two-component model comprising a classical regression model and a neural network part. The CANN model leverages the strengths of both components, providing a solid foundation and interpretability from the classical model while harnessing the flexibility and capacity to capture intricate relationships and interactions offered by the neural network. In our proposed models, we use well-known log-linear claim count regression models for the classical regression part and a multilayer perceptron (MLP) for the neural network part. The MLP part is used to process telematics car driving data given as a vector characterizing the driving behavior of each insured driver. In addition to the Poisson and negative binomial distributions for cross-sectional data, we propose a procedure for training our CANN model with a multivariate negative binomial specification. By doing so, we introduce a longitudinal model that accounts for the dependence between contracts from the same insured. Our results reveal that the CANN models exhibit superior performance compared to log-linear models that rely on manually engineered telematics features.
